Dino_Hunter Lessons Learned
Captain Gurrister

Over the course of this project I learned several things.  The first was the importance of planning before coding.  Early on, we sucesfully distributed tasks to each team member but found ourselfs with different code with different variables/names and no clear way to bring everything together.  The lesson here was not to rush into coding until all the planning is done.  Even though it felt like we were making progress, we still had to backtrack to fix the code.  The next xhallenge for me was leanring how to use pygames to code since I had never used it before.  The lesson learned here was to go out and get on the forums and video blogs for research rather that trying to figure it out all on my own.  This enabled me to learn how to do basic things like displaying a sprite or shooting a bullet which was needed in the project.

Steven Gore:
I learned a great deal from this big project. The biggest one was definitely forward planning. I generally don't forward plan and just code as I go so I can figure out implementation on the way. Seeing how lack of planning can definitely negatively affect you later on down the road has given me a better appreciation for forward planning. Another big thing I learned was group dynamics when it comes to working on code. I've never coded with a group of people before and it was a learning experience. John was able to show me how git worked and I thought that was an awesome resource. As we all modified the code and changed around certain framework, I found myself getting better at interpreting other people's code and understanding what they were coding, and then work my implementation into the new code.


John Lytle:
I learned quite a bit about what it takes to plan for a project. Prior to this class, I have never written code with anyone else or to this scale. One of the key takeaways I have is that planning is crucial. We initially sat down and talked through the basic structure, but as we continued to develop the game, we realized we left out several key pieces. This led to increased time down the road to rework the code in order to achieve our original vision. Additionally, I learned how hard GUI programming actually is. After trying a few libaries, there is no best solution and GUI development is a skillset in and of itself. Finally, I never realized how important data structures can be in code. For example, using a FIFO queue for mob spawning greatly simplified our intitial approach and was more effective in the long run. I believe that if I were to redo this project, I would focus even more heavily on the planning and how we could develop/use other data structures that are more efficient than what either pygame or Python provides.


